New Entry and Terms: Java `StringBuilder` (#870)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/stringbuilder/terms/lastIndexOf/lastIndexOf.md

---
Title: '.lastIndexOf()'

> Description: 'Returns the index of the last (rightmost) occurrence of a substring in the StringBuilder.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the index of the last (rightmost) occurrence of a substring in the StringBuilder or -1 if no substring is found.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.lastIndexOf()`** method returns the index of the last (rightmost) occurrence of a substring in the `StringBuilder`. It returns `-1` if the substring is not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.lastIndexOf()`** method returns the index of the last (rightmost) occurrence of a substring in the `StringBuilder`. If a substring is not found, `-1` is returned.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> myStringBuilder.lastIndexOf(substring);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
myStringBuilder.lastIndexOf(substring, index);
```

```

> The argument `substring` is the [`String`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings) being matched.
> 
> ```pseudo
> myStringBuilder.lastIndexOf(substring, index);
> ```
> 
> If the optional `int` `index` is provided, `.lastIndexOf()` will return the last occurrence of `substring` occurring prior to that index in the `StringBuilder`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The argument `substring` is the [`String`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings) being matched.

The `index` is an `int` argument that is optional. If provided, `.lastIndexOf()` returns the last occurrence of `substring` prior to that index in the `StringBuilder`.
```
